README.md, before:

# Buhay Frontend

A Flutter-based application providing user-friendly route planning system.

## Overview
- [Buhay Frontend](#buhay-frontend)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [macOS Setup](#macos-setup)
    - [Windows Setup](#windows-setup)
  - [Running the App](#running-the-app)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)


## Prerequisites
- FVM-Flutter
- Android Studio



## Installation
The following are based from the [Developer Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uRG7_ixBq6qiYxcPjxTsgFeEvqFMlDZ9RML6kRRRwPc/edit?usp=sharing).

### macOS Setup
1. **Install FVM via Homebrew**  
   ```
   brew tap leoafarias/fvm
   brew install fvm
   ```

2. Restart your terminal to ensure the new commands are recognized.
   
3. Check FVM version:
    ```
    fvm --version
    ```

4. Install a specific Flutter version (e.g., 3.19.6):
    ```
    fvm install 3.19.6
    ```

5. Run Flutter Doctor via FVM:
    ```
    fvm spawn 3.19.6 doctor --verbose
    ```

6. Set a global FVM version (optional):
    ```
    fvm global 3.19.6
    ```

7. Update your PATH (e.g., in ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc):
    ```
    nano ~/.zshrc
    # Add the following line at the end:
    export PATH="/path:$PATH"
    ```

    Replace /path with the correct path to your FVM bin or your chosen Flutter SDK directory if needed.

8. Switch Flutter versions (e.g., 3.24.5):
    ```
    fvm use 3.24.5
    ```

9. List installed Flutter versions:
    ```
    fvm list
    ```

10. Verify Flutter version:
    ```
    fvm flutter --version
    ```


### Windows Setup 
1. Install Chocolatey from its [official site](https://chocolatey.org/install). To check if installation is successful:
    ```
    choco -v
    ```

2. If you encounter any issues,
   - Check if you have installed any packages using choco, you might need to reinstall them later on.
     - Run `choco list`
     - Take note of the packages installed. You might need to reinstall them if you’re using them in any of your programs.
     - Kindly search online on how to reinstall the packages.
   - Uninstall chocolatey (assuming you have no prior installations made using chocolatey).
     - Run powershell as administrator
     - Run the command cd C:\programdata
     - Run ls check if chocolatey directory is there
     - Run rm chocolatey then enter.
     - If above command does not work try Remove-Item C:\programdata\chocolatey -Recurse -Force
   - Install chocolatey.


3. Install FVM:
    ```
    choco install fvm
    ```

4. Restart your terminal.

5. Check FVM version:
    ```
    fvm --version
    ```

6. Install a specific Flutter version:
    ```
    fvm install 3.19.6
    ```

7. Run Flutter Doctor:
    ```
    fvm spawn 3.19.6 doctor --verbose
    ```

8. Set a global FVM version:
    ```
    fvm global 3.19.6
    ```

9. Update Environment Variables
    - Open “Environment Variables” on Windows
    - Click Path → Edit
    - Change the Flutter path to:
    ```
    C:\Users\{Username}\fvm\default\bin
    ```

10. Switch Flutter versions:
    ```
    fvm use 3.24.5
    ```

11. List installed Flutter versions:
    ```
    fvm list
    ```

12. Verify Flutter version:
    ```
    fvm flutter --version
    ```

    > [!NOTE]  
    > 3.24.5 version should be `LOCAL` and 3.19.6 version should be `GLOBAL`.


<br>


## Running the App
1. Clone the repository
    ```
    git clone <to-be-inserted>
    cd <buhay-frontend>
    ```

2. To use API keys securely, **create a `.env` file** in the root of the project (alongside `pubspec.yaml`) with the following parameters for the API keys.
    ```
    to-be-added-by-the-dev
    ```

3. Install dependencies
    ```
    fvm flutter pub get
    ```

4. Generate `env.g.dart` file
    ```
    fvm dart run build_runner build --delete-conflicting-outputs
    ```

5. **Important Step!** To avoid error in the next step, go to `android/local.properties`, and add the following parameters for the API keys (to be filled by the developer).
    ```
    APPWRITE_PROJECT_ID=
    GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY_1=
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > There's no quotation marks when inputting the API key.

6. Open Android Studio, and open the directory of the repository.

7. Search for Flutter in `File/Settings/Plugins` and install it!

8. Under Flutter Device Selection dropdown, boot up `Medium Phone API 36 (mobile)`. If you don't see this, try to refresh the dropdown. To check if this is live and ready, go to `Tools/Device Manager`. 
   
    > [!NOTE]
    > If you are having trouble, restart the mobile, then perform a `Cold Boot`!

9.  Run the app in the terminal! See the app running in `Running Devices`.
    ```
    fvm flutter run
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you are going to actually use the app with its functionality in the backend, make sure to also run the backend locally!


<br>

## Contributing
1. Fetch the latest changes from the remote repository.
    ```
    git fetch
    git checkout main
    git pull
    ```

2. After pulling the latest changes, create a feature branch:
    ```
    # Create a new branch for your feature or fix
    git checkout -b feature/awesome-feature
    ```

    Example:
    ```
    git checkout -b feature/login-page # or 
    git checkout -b bugfix/overflow-issue
    ```

3. From that same branch, make your changes.
    ```
    # Add your changes
    git add .

    # Commit with a meaningful message
    git commit -m "feat: add awesome feature"

    # Push the changes to your branch
    git push origin feature/awesome-feature
    ```

4. Finally, open up a **Pull Request** targeting the main branch! Add a descriptive title and a summary of your changes! The PR would automatically then require a review before merging it to main.

Commit message:

docs: add rebase method to avoid merge conflicts

README.md, after:

# Buhay Frontend

A Flutter-based application providing user-friendly route planning system.

## Overview
- [Buhay Frontend](#buhay-frontend)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [macOS Setup](#macos-setup)
    - [Windows Setup](#windows-setup)
  - [Running the App](#running-the-app)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)


## Prerequisites
- FVM-Flutter
- Android Studio



## Installation
The following are based from the [Developer Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uRG7_ixBq6qiYxcPjxTsgFeEvqFMlDZ9RML6kRRRwPc/edit?usp=sharing).

### macOS Setup
1. **Install FVM via Homebrew**  
   ```
   brew tap leoafarias/fvm
   brew install fvm
   ```

2. Restart your terminal to ensure the new commands are recognized.
   
3. Check FVM version:
    ```
    fvm --version
    ```

4. Install a specific Flutter version (e.g., 3.19.6):
    ```
    fvm install 3.19.6
    ```

5. Run Flutter Doctor via FVM:
    ```
    fvm spawn 3.19.6 doctor --verbose
    ```

6. Set a global FVM version (optional):
    ```
    fvm global 3.19.6
    ```

7. Update your PATH (e.g., in ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc):
    ```
    nano ~/.zshrc
    # Add the following line at the end:
    export PATH="/path:$PATH"
    ```

    Replace /path with the correct path to your FVM bin or your chosen Flutter SDK directory if needed.

8. Switch Flutter versions (e.g., 3.24.5):
    ```
    fvm use 3.24.5
    ```

9. List installed Flutter versions:
    ```
    fvm list
    ```

10. Verify Flutter version:
    ```
    fvm flutter --version
    ```


### Windows Setup 
1. Install Chocolatey from its [official site](https://chocolatey.org/install). To check if installation is successful:
    ```
    choco -v
    ```

2. If you encounter any issues,
   - Check if you have installed any packages using choco, you might need to reinstall them later on.
     - Run `choco list`
     - Take note of the packages installed. You might need to reinstall them if you’re using them in any of your programs.
     - Kindly search online on how to reinstall the packages.
   - Uninstall chocolatey (assuming you have no prior installations made using chocolatey).
     - Run powershell as administrator
     - Run the command cd C:\programdata
     - Run ls check if chocolatey directory is there
     - Run rm chocolatey then enter.
     - If above command does not work try Remove-Item C:\programdata\chocolatey -Recurse -Force
   - Install chocolatey.


3. Install FVM:
    ```
    choco install fvm
    ```

4. Restart your terminal.

5. Check FVM version:
    ```
    fvm --version
    ```

6. Install a specific Flutter version:
    ```
    fvm install 3.19.6
    ```

7. Run Flutter Doctor:
    ```
    fvm spawn 3.19.6 doctor --verbose
    ```

8. Set a global FVM version:
    ```
    fvm global 3.19.6
    ```

9. Update Environment Variables
    - Open “Environment Variables” on Windows
    - Click Path → Edit
    - Change the Flutter path to:
    ```
    C:\Users\{Username}\fvm\default\bin
    ```

10. Switch Flutter versions:
    ```
    fvm use 3.24.5
    ```

11. List installed Flutter versions:
    ```
    fvm list
    ```

12. Verify Flutter version:
    ```
    fvm flutter --version
    ```

    > [!NOTE]  
    > 3.24.5 version should be `LOCAL` and 3.19.6 version should be `GLOBAL`.


<br>


## Running the App
1. Clone the repository
    ```
    git clone <to-be-inserted>
    cd <buhay-frontend>
    ```

2. To use API keys securely, **create a `.env` file** in the root of the project (alongside `pubspec.yaml`) with the following parameters for the API keys.
    ```
    to-be-added-by-the-dev
    ```

3. Install dependencies
    ```
    fvm flutter pub get
    ```

4. Generate `env.g.dart` file
    ```
    fvm dart run build_runner build --delete-conflicting-outputs
    ```

5. **Important Step!** To avoid error in the next step, go to `android/local.properties`, and add the following parameters for the API keys (to be filled by the developer).
    ```
    APPWRITE_PROJECT_ID=
    GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY_1=
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > There's no quotation marks when inputting the API key.

6. Open Android Studio, and open the directory of the repository.

7. Search for Flutter in `File/Settings/Plugins` and install it!

8. Under Flutter Device Selection dropdown, boot up `Medium Phone API 36 (mobile)`. If you don't see this, try to refresh the dropdown. To check if this is live and ready, go to `Tools/Device Manager`. 
   
    > [!NOTE]
    > If you are having trouble, restart the mobile, then perform a `Cold Boot`!

9.  Run the app in the terminal! See the app running in `Running Devices`.
    ```
    fvm flutter run
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you are going to actually use the app with its functionality in the backend, make sure to also run the backend locally!


<br>

## Contributing
1. Fetch the latest changes from the remote repository.
    ```
    git fetch
    git checkout main
    git pull
    ```

2. After pulling the latest changes, create a feature branch:
    ```
    # Create a new branch for your feature or fix
    git checkout -b feature/awesome-feature
    ```

    Example:
    ```
    git checkout -b feature/login-page # or 
    git checkout -b bugfix/overflow-issue
    ```

3. Keep your feature branch updated.

   To lessen the possibility of merge conflicts, it's recommended to frequently update your feature branch with the latest changes from the main branch.
   You can do this by:

   1. First, switching to the main branch and pulling the latest changes
      ```
      git checkout main
      git pull
      ```
   
   2. Then, rebasing your working branch on top of the updated main branch:
      ```
      git checkout feature/awesome-feature
      git rebase main
      ```
  
   This will replay your feature branch commits on top of any updates coming into main branch.
   
4. From that same branch, make your changes.
    ```
    # Add your changes
    git add .

    # Commit with a meaningful message
    git commit -m "feat: add awesome feature"

    # Push the changes to your branch
    git push origin feature/awesome-feature
    ```

5. Finally, open up a **Pull Request** targeting the main branch! Add a descriptive title and a summary of your changes! The PR would automatically then require a review before merging it to main.
